daggone I've been missing left all day
long and you are aimed that way don't me
put your feet down
oh you mean gonna put this down you come
back here and look at this tell me where
you're aimed at I knew something was way
off
alright so havin some fun there but
that's a conversation that every single
person has had with one of their playing
partners every person that's ever played
golf we're gonna dive into alignment
today and talk about some of the
mistakes that you can fall into if your
two openers are too closed and what you
should look at there now before I get
into that you really don't have to be
exactly correct with your alignment I
could be a little bit open with my
stance and I could play a draw I'll
actually prove it right now I'll be a
little open with my stance actually
significantly open with my stance and
then here I'm gonna play a draw there
you guys see that ball start down the
right center of the fairway and drew
right back into the middle of fairway
now that doesn't mean that you have to
play a draw that way I'm just saying
your stance isn't everything here's what
I would recommend when you're playing
well notice where you're lined up when
you're making a really good
fundamentally solid swing do you have a
tendency being a little bit more open
like Trevino being square like tons of
great players or being a little bit more
closed maybe like a Ben Hogan would be
learn your individual preference and
then check that when things get off to
see if you're setting up that way let me
go talk about now some of the things you
can fall into when you don't get lined
up correctly a lot of times especially
if you tend to hit a fade I'll see
players that start to get their stance
more and more open and the reason for
that is when that fade starts the left
and fades to the middle of fairway if
you over fade you're always going to
miss to the right you're going to
typically miss to the right so once you
do that a few times you start to go more
and more left so if I tend to go more
and more left my stance gets pointing
this way that's going to exaggerate that
bigger left-to-right curve on the golf
ball you're gonna see here how this
alignment stick my feet are open to that
and that's going to promote me coming
more and more this way now that can
really affect my distance you'll see on
that last Drive 117 miles hundreds Ickx
10.8 miles
our of clubhead speed 317 total distance
let me make the same swing speed swing
here but now I'm gonna play a little bit
more of a cut swing let's give that a
try all right so I hit that one really
solid but because I faded it because
that face was open I'm gonna lose a
little bit of distance it's not gonna be
a ton but every yard matters if you can
get it more yardage that's way better so
one hundred and seventeen and a half
about the same swing speed my carry
distance went down and I told listen
sound went to 282 so you can see when I
get lined up too far left especially if
you're someone that tends to slice check
that first now here's the thing that
most people get wrong when they do that
they change their feet but they don't
change their body so what happens is if
you're a big slicer you line up and your
feet and your shoulders are both going
left you change your feet to be straight
but look at what the shoulders do
instead of being square here they end up
going back to the left again anyways so
a lot of times I'll see players that
look like this they have a big slice and
this is their set up their shoulders are
to the left and they just kind of stuck
their feet out to the right you know I
can have my feet be like this if I'm
open with my shoulders in my body it's
still not going to be good for my
consistency so the big thing to check
there is once you square up your feet
also square up your shoulders feel like
if you're looking for a face on have a
little bit of a tilt so my head is
looking down a little bit at the back of
the ball so we call the stable fluid
spine at address when we're talking
about that in top speed golf system also
feel like your right shoulder is a
little lower and a little bit more to
the right than your left so now I'm in a
pretty good position if I was to draw a
line down my shoulders it's gonna be
pretty square to where my feet are this
is much makes it much easier to hit a
draw so I'm gonna feel like I go a
little bit more that way
now I really feel like I can hit that
big draw or that nice baby draw and
really hammer it
all right so dead-straight got rid of
that slice just in the right center of
the fairway that'll maybe drew a few
yards you look at the distance on that
one back up to 3:23 so primered pretty
hard now on the opposite direction let's
say that I tend to line up too far to
the right again one of the things you
might be doing is lining up to the right
and over hooking it so if you line up to
the right and you start hitting hooks
hooks hooks hooks and you want to
straighten that out getting your feet a
little more square what help but then
sometimes what players will do again is
they'll line their feet up square but
then they'll get their body lined up way
right so now my shoulders are pointing
over here I feel like I'm really coming
from the inside well I'm gonna still
continue to hook it if I do it that way
so we can see how that was a big
swinging hook that I hit into the left
rough because my shoulders were still
tilted that way so once you check your
feet alignment make sure that your
shoulder alignment is square there too I
don't want that way over here our way
over here
where things can get off-track I'm going
to start hitting those big fades in
those big hooks so let's go to the other
details here that are really important
with this one of them already mentioned
once I get my feet in my shoulders
square I want to make sure that I have a
little bit of tilt and my right shoulder
is slightly lower than my left shoulder
if I take this club and I put it on my
belt buckle and I put the top of the
club hit my shirt buttons I want to tilt
away until that line is going to the
inside of my left leg so my again my
shirt buttons are behind my belt buckle
and my spine angles tilted slightly away
the reason this is important is because
I have to be in this position to be able
to get lag and to release that club out
in front of the Schoff ball if I'm
straight up and down I'm going to cast
so I want to have a little bit of tilt
there I want to feel like my head is
behind the golf ball and now I'm set up
in a pretty daggone good position to
give this a good rip there we go nice
and straight right down the middle of
fairway so from there I'm in a good
position with my body I'm in a good
position my feet I'm in a good position
with my shoulders
finally I want to be in a good position
with the ball I want to really make sure
that this ball has toward the instep of
my left foot if I'm hitting a driver
that way I can make sure that I'm
hitting a little bit more up on it or at
least level with the ball now when I
switch over to an iron if I want to be
lined up correctly
I'm gonna play the ball a little bit
farther back and it doesn't change that
much when I go from a long iron to a mid
iron so long iron the ball is
essentially pretty much in the middle of
my stance maybe a hair a ball up in my
stance and I have a wider stance here
because this is a longer iron now when I
go to a shorter iron the ball position
is still going to be pretty much the
same spot the only change is my right
foot is going to be a little closer to
my left foot not quite as wide with my
stance when I'm hitting a pitching wedge
so really the relationship to your left
foot in the ball stays the same with all
shots off the ground whether it's a
3-wood whether it's a four iron or
whether it's a pitching wedge the only
difference is as I narrow up my stance
that's going to make it look a little
farther back in my stance because this
foot is going from there to there so the
ball position in relationship to your
left foot with all clubs off the ground
is going to be pretty much universally
the same if I can do that
then things get a lot easier I can hit
driver I can hit irons I get lined up
nicely like I am when I'm playing well
and when things get off track those
would be the very first things that I
would check so now how do I actually
figure out where I'm aim if I don't have
somebody telling me let me walk you
through the best way to do that first
off when you're on a driving range I
always make sure that you have an
alignment stick on the ground your eyes
are going to tend to shift what feels
Square to you maybe way to the right or
it may be way to the left over time
we're always kind of shifting a little
bit the good news is I really never see
anybody that aims up way to the right
and then way to the left
and then way to the right weighted left
we have one thing that's a preference so
if you're only going to hit ten balls on
the driving range before you play you
put this alignment stick down towards
your target when you set up and look
down at your feet and relationships that
stick you're going to see if you're
lined up too far to the right that day
or too far to the left so that helps out
once I start to understand my preference
that day then I can adjust it if I'm not
hitting very well once I get out on the
course
I would recommend lining up this golf
ball standing behind it lining it up
with the target in the distance and
picking a spot out on the ground in
front of the golf ball what I can do now
is as I set up and address this golf
ball I'm gonna line my clubface with
that spot right out in front and then
when I this is going to be me stepping
in not taking my stance yet when I take
my stance I'm gonna look toward the
distance and what happens here is if I
look toward the distance and naturally
let my feet get in alignment I'm gonna
be pretty daggone close to being good
because I'm looking at my target in the
distance the worst thing you can do this
is gonna get your line my way off even
if you line up this spot here if I'm
looking at this golf ball and I take my
stance I could really get off off angle
there because I really don't have a good
feel for where my target is in the
distance so I always want to be looking
at the target in the distance as I take
my stance take my alignment that's
really going to help things and then
finally what we talked about earlier in
this video make sure I have a little bit
of tilt if I'm no tilt straight up and
down leaning left my shoulders are going
to be open if I'm way too much tilting
I'm Way over here like this my shoulders
are going to be too closed and pointing
to the right so a little tiny bit of
tilt and now I'm in the perfect setup so
face first line it up toward the spot in
front look at the target line up your
feet from there a little bit of tilt and
man I'm in a great position to really
let this one fly now this angle that I'm
talking about is what I call the stable
fluid spine in the top speed golf system
it's really one of the fundamentals of
the swing once I get that angle I can
swing around my spine to the top of the
back swing and swing around my spine in
the downswing
that's going to be the right position
for me to get lag and release this club
in the front if I'm Way too tilted this
way or I'm straight up and down it's
going to be very tough to get lag and
it's going to be very easy to cast the
club and flip through contact have all
kinds of inconsistencies with not only
alignment but where I'm grounding out if
I'm hitting an iron or
or whether or not I can swing square for
meeting a driver I'm going to play one
of the best videos that I've made on the
stable fluid spine to show you how to go
through that I'll play a preview that
here in just one second go ahead and
click the card that pops up on your
screen or if you don't see that card
no worries go ahead an click the link
down below in the description and you'll
get instant access to that video you get
your spine lined up right so you can
play some of your best golf let's go get
started what is it that allows us to
have consistency in the golf swing and
what is it that allows that consistency
to fall apart and create some bad rounds
that's what we're going to talk about in
this video today let's go and get
started everything that's that happens
in the golf swing is initially dictated
what happens with the spine so if we're
looking at a skeleton you know my spines
in the centre of my body and everything
else and my body's attached to my spine
so my shoulders are attached to my spine
my arms attached to my shoulders and
then my arms are gonna be actually
swinging the club now when I see players
that are really struggling those guys
that are hitting it out in the woods
right they're hitting in the left then
they have a few good holes what's
happening is their spine angle is
changing as they go to the top of the
swing maybe to have a reverse pivot
spines angled back falling back to the
right but there's a lot of inconsistency
in that and what happens is as good
athletes as we all are the number one
fundamental and golf correct keep it
nice and stable but fluid we're gonna be
able to hit those good clean shots time
and time again and that's what I'm going
to show you in this series of videos
henrik stenson top 5 in both driving
distance and accuracy Rory McIlroy here
playing some of the best golf that
anybody's ever played and you can see
just
you